README.md, before:

# gLM 0.1
gLM the GPU based Language Model is an ngram language model implementation that takes in an arpa file as an input, binarizes it and queries it in batch.

## Build
```bash
git clone https://github.com/XapaJIaMnu/gLM.git
cd gLM
mkdir release_build
cd release_build
cmake .. -DBUILDTYPE=release #Necessary for -O3 compilation otherwise it would be slow
make -j4
make test #Requires CUDA for GPU testing
```

## Binarize arpa files
```bash
cd path_to_glm/release_build/bin
./binarize path_to_arpa_file output_path [btree_node_size] [[CompactMode]]
```
*btree_node_size* should be an odd number. Personally I found that 31 works best, but you should experiment. The number could vary with different size arpa files and different GPUs

If *compactMode* is not set, or is set to *0* gLM will use memory mapped IO for the model. If *compactMode* is set, the model is going to use boost.serialization over bzip2 compressed stream, which will result in about 3 times more compact model, but the loading time could increase 10-80 fold depending on your CPU and your IO system.

## Batch query
To benchmark gLM in batch setting do:
```bash
cd path_to_glm/release_build/bin
./batch_query path_to_binary_lm path_to_text_file [add_begin_end_markers]
```
This will calculate the perplexity of a text file. If *add_begin_end_markers* is set to 0, the begin of sentence and end of sentence tokens (<s> and </s>) will not surround every sentence.

## Preliminary results
So... Everything started running correctly. A (preliminary) benchmark against KenLM (Titan X vs core i7 4720HQ)

| LM  | ngram queries per second | model info          |
|-----|:------------------------:| -------------------:|
|KenLM| 10 274 237               |3.3G, 88720517 ngrams|
|gLM  | 34 011 267               |3.3G, 88720517 ngrams|


Please bear in mind that this is not a completely fair benchmark as KenLM's benchmark is single threaded and the queries are being batched, which is usually not the case. However in batch setting gLM should outperform kenLM.

Commit message:

Add support for choosing a particular GPU

README.md, after:

# gLM 0.1
gLM the GPU based Language Model is an ngram language model implementation that takes in an arpa file as an input, binarizes it and queries it in batch.

## Build
```bash
git clone https://github.com/XapaJIaMnu/gLM.git
cd gLM
mkdir release_build
cd release_build
cmake .. -DBUILDTYPE=release #Necessary for -O3 compilation otherwise it would be slow
make -j4
make test #Requires CUDA for GPU testing
```

## Binarize arpa files
```bash
cd path_to_glm/release_build/bin
./binarize path_to_arpa_file output_path [btree_node_size] [CompactMode]
```
*btree_node_size* should be an odd number. Personally I found that 31 works best, but you should experiment. The number could vary with different size arpa files and different GPUs

If *compactMode* is not set, or is set to *0* gLM will use memory mapped IO for the model. If *compactMode* is set, the model is going to use boost.serialization over bzip2 compressed stream, which will result in about 3 times more compact model, but the loading time could increase 10-80 fold depending on your CPU and your IO system.

## Batch query
To benchmark gLM in batch setting do:
```bash
cd path_to_glm/release_build/bin
./batch_query path_to_binary_lm path_to_text_file [gpuDeviceID] [add_begin_end_markers]
```
This will calculate the perplexity of a text file. If *gpuDeviceID* is set, it will tell the gpu portion of the code to be executed on a particular GPU. You can check the available gpus on a system using the `nvidia_smi` command. 0 is a safe default to have if you want to set it. If *add_begin_end_markers* is set to 0, the begin of sentence and end of sentence tokens (\<s\> and \</s\>) will not surround every sentence.

## Preliminary results
So... Everything started running correctly. A (preliminary) benchmark against KenLM (Titan X vs core i7 4720HQ)

| LM  | ngram queries per second | model info          |
|-----|:------------------------:| -------------------:|
|KenLM| 10 274 237               |3.3G, 88720517 ngrams|
|gLM  | 34 011 267               |3.3G, 88720517 ngrams|


Please bear in mind that this is not a completely fair benchmark as KenLM's benchmark is single threaded and the queries are being batched, which is usually not the case. However in batch setting gLM should outperform kenLM.
